--- Page 1 ---
Diplomatic 
Conference on 
Genetic Resources 
and Associated 
Traditional 
Knowledge
May 2024

--- Page 2 ---
What: A final-stage conference where WIPO countries will work to finalize two 
decades of discussions and forge agreement on an international legal instrument – a 
treaty, convention or other document - relating to intellectual property, genetic 
resources, and associated traditional knowledge. 
Member States reached consensus in July 2022 to move their negotiations to the next 
level, determining that a Diplomatic Conference should be held in 2024 and that a 
"Basic Proposal" would serve as the basis for negotiations.
When: May 13 to 24, 2024 
Where: WIPO Headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland.
Who: The negotiators will be official delegates of WIPO’s 193 Member States. 
Discussions are actively supported by the participation of a wide array of observers, 
including Indigenous Peoples as well as local communities, non-governmental 
organizations, intergovernmental organizations, and industry representatives.
The “Basic Proposal” Core Elements
Patent disclosure requirement
Disclosing inventions in detail is a core principle of patent law. Inventors have to 
explain their invention in sufficient detail so that someone with the same level of 
knowledge can reproduce the invention. Furthermore, prior art must generally be 
disclosed to assist patent examiners in assessing whether the invention is truly novel 
and non-obvious.
In the context of genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge, the 
Basic Proposal describes an additional disclosure requirement that would require 
patent applicants to disclose information on the genetic resources and associated 
traditional knowledge if the claimed invention is “materially/directly based” on 
them. The disclosure would comprise the country of origin of the genetic resources 
and/or the Indigenous Peoples or local community that provided the associated 
traditional knowledge.
If such information is unknown, the source of the genetic resources or associated 
traditional knowledge should be disclosed. If none of the above information is known, 
the patent applicant should declare so. 
Some 35 regional organizations and countries already have a requirement along these 
lines in their regional and national laws. 
Patent offices would provide certain guidance on how to meet the disclosure 
requirement and an opportunity to fix a failure to include the minimum information 
or correct any inaccurate or incorrect disclosures. However, they would have no 
obligation to verify the authenticity of the disclosure.
Explainer

--- Page 3 ---
Information systems
The Basic Proposal also provides for the voluntary establishment of information systems, such 
as databases of genetic resources and their associated traditional knowledge, in consultation 
with Indigenous Peoples and local communities where applicable.
Genetic resources databases can compile and reference a wide range of information and 
materials, including, for example, information about genetic resources, associated traditional 
knowledge, known uses of genetic resources, and relevant scientific compilations. 
Such systems should be accessible to IP offices for search and examination purposes, 
with appropriate safeguards developed with Indigenous Peoples and local communities 
where applicable.
Other elements of the Basic Proposal
The Basic Proposal comprises a Preamble and 23 articles, including a description of 
the objectives, a definition of the terms used, the disclosure requirement, exceptions 
and limitations, provisions on information systems, and provisions on the exclusion of 
retroactivity and on sanctions and remedies. The draft text also contains provisions on the 
relationship with other international agreements, a future review, and so-called ’final and 
administrative clauses’.
The full text of the Basic Proposal and an informal summary of it are available at www.wipo.int/
edocs/mdocs/traditional knowledge/en/gratraditional knowledge_dc/gratraditional knowledg e_
dc_3.pdf  and
www.wipo.int/export/sites/www/diplomatic-conferences/en/docs/executive-summary-basic-
proposal.pdf 
Background
The Diplomatic Conference marks the last step in negotiations to conclude a part of the work 
conducted by the WIPO Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual Property and Genetic 
Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore (IGC) established in 2000. Since its inception, the 
IGC has been working on the relationship between intellectual property, traditional knowledge, 
traditional cultural expressions and genetic resources. 
Genetic resources
Genetic resources are contained in, for example, medicinal plants, agricultural crops, and 
animal breeds. Some genetic resources are linked to traditional knowledge and traditional 
practices through their use and conservation by Indigenous Peoples and local communities, 
often over generations. 
Formally, genetic resources are defined in the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) as 
genetic material of actual or potential value. The CBD further defines genetic material as any 
material of plant, animal, microbial, or other origin containing functional units of heredity. The 
Basic Proposal incorporates these definitions.
Genetic resources themselves, as encountered in nature, cannot be directly protected as IP 
because they are not creations of the human mind. However, inventions based on or developed 
using genetic resources (and associated traditional knowledge) may be eligible for protection 
through the patent system.
Intellectual property issues
One of the IP issues related to genetic resources discussed in the WIPO IGC is the prevention 
of the erroneous granting of patents for inventions that have been developed using genetic 
resources and associated traditional knowledge but do not fulfill patentability requirements 
such as novelty and inventiveness.

--- Page 4 ---
wipo.int
© WIPO, 2024 /  Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) / The CC license does not apply to non-WIPO content in this publication. 
Cover: Unsplash/Syd Sujuaan, Eduardo Prim, Vlad Hilitanu, Nathan Dumlao, James Wainscoat / WIPO Reference RN2024-22EN; DOI: 10.34667/tind.49278
Preventing erroneous patents is referred to as a form of ’defensive protection’. Some countries 
have adopted policies, mechanisms, and measures aimed at the defensive protection of genetic 
resources, such as databases and other information systems, to help patent examiners find 
relevant prior art.
Several regional organizations and countries, seeking to avoid the erroneous granting of 
patents, have also established new disclosure requirements as part of their patent filing 
and examination process. There are, however, no common international standards to 
harmonize such provisions, and countries are therefore taking a wide range of approaches for 
such measures.
One of the core elements of the potential treaty is a mandatory disclosure requirement in 
patent applications for inventions based on genetic resources and associated traditional 
knowledge under certain conditions. The new requirement would apply to patent applications 
filed in those countries, or with those intergovernmental organizations, that become party to 
the new treaty. 
The Diplomatic Conference: procedure and practical arrangements
The Rules of Procedure of the Diplomatic Conference govern who can take part in the Diplomatic 
Conference, how it will run, and how decisions will be taken. The Rules of Procedure will be 
adopted at the commencement of the Conference. 
Practical arrangements related to participation in the Diplomatic Conference are available at:
www.wipo.int/diplomatic-conferences/en/genetic-resources/index.html  
This is an informal note intended as a basic introduction to the upcoming Diplomatic Conference. 
Formal documentation is available at the links below. 
Diplomatic Conference on Intellectual Property and Genetic
Resources in 2024  www.wipo.int/diplomatic-conferences/en/
genetic-resources/index.html
Key Questions on Patent Disclosure Requirements for Genetic
Resources and Traditional Knowledge,
www.wipo.int/publications/en/details.jsp?id=4498
The WIPO Intergovernmental Committee on Intellectual Property
and Genetic Resources, Traditional Knowledge and Folklore (IGC),
www.wipo.int/traditional  knowledge/en/igc
A series of Background Briefs prepared by WIPO on various topics,
www.wipo.int/publications/en/series/index.jsp?id=144
More WIPO resources are available at
www.wipo.int/traditional  knowledge/en/global_reference.html